<!---
Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Generating the documentation

> The following guide is adapted from [🤗 Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/docs).

To generate the documentation for 🤗 Optimum, simply run the following command
from the root of the `optimum` repository:

```bash
make doc BUILD_DIR=optimum-doc-build VERSION=main
```

This command will generate the HTML files that will be rendered as the
documentation on the [Hugging Face
website](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/index). You can inspect them in
your favorite browser. You can also adapt the `BUILD_DIR` and `VERSION`
arguments to any temporary folder or version that you prefer.

To generate the documentation for one of the hardware partner integrations, you
first need to clone the corresponding repository and run the `make doc` command
to build the docs. For example, the following commands generate the
documentation for `optimum-habana`:

```
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git
cd optimum-habana
make doc BUILD_DIR=habana-doc-build
```

---
**NOTE**

You only need to generate the documentation to inspect it locally, e.g. if you're
planning changes and want to check how they look like before committing. You
don't have to commit the built documentation.

---

# Writing documentation - specification

The 🤗 Optimum documentation follows the [Google
documentation](https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html)
style for docstrings, although we can write them directly in Markdown.

## Adding a new element to the navigation bar

Under the hood, the documentation is generated by the
[`hf-doc-builder`](https://github.com/huggingface/doc-builder) library. Here we
summarize the main syntax needed to write the documentation -- consult
`hf-doc-builder` for more details. 

Accepted files are Markdown (.md or .mdx).

Create a file with its extension and put it in the `docs/source` directory. You
can then link it to the table of contents by putting the filename _without the
extension_ in the
[`_toctree.yml`](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum/blob/main/docs/source/_toctree.yml)
file.

## Renaming section headers and moving sections

It helps to keep the old links working when renaming section header and/or
moving sections from one document to another. This is because the old links are
likely to be used in Issues, Forums and social media and it makes for a much
more superior user experience if users reading those months later could still
easily navigate to the originally intended information.

Therefore we simply keep a little map of moved sections at the end of the
document where the original section was. The key is to preserve the original
anchor.

So if you renamed a section from: "Section A" to "Section B", then you can add
at the end of the file:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```
and of course if you moved it to another file, then:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="../new-file#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```

Use the relative style to link to the new file so that the versioned docs
continue to work.

For an example of a rich moved sections set please see the very end of [the
`Trainer`
doc](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/docs/source/main_classes/trainer.mdx)
in `transformers`.

## Adding a new tutorial

Adding a new tutorial or section is done in two steps:

- Add a new file under `docs/source`. This file should be in Markdown (.md)
  format.
- Link that file in `docs/source/_toctree.yml` on the correct toc-tree.

Make sure to put your new file under the proper section. It's unlikely to go in
the first section (*Get Started*), so depending on the intended targets
(beginners, more advanced users or researchers) it should go in a later section.

## Writing source documentation

Values that should be put in `code` should either be surrounded by backticks:
\`like so\`. Note that argument names and objects like True, None or any strings
should usually be put in `code`.

When mentioning a class, function or method, it is recommended to use our syntax
for internal links so that our tool adds a link to its documentation with this
syntax: \[\`XXXClass\`\] or \[\`function\`\]. This requires the class or
function to be in the main package.

If you want to create a link to some internal class or function, you need to
provide its path. For instance: \[\`utils.ModelOutput\`\]. This will be
converted into a link with `utils.ModelOutput` in the description. To get rid of
the path and only keep the name of the object you are linking to in the
description, add a ~: \[\`~utils.ModelOutput\`\] will generate a link with
`ModelOutput` in the description.

The same works for methods so you can either use \[\`XXXClass.method\`\] or
\[~\`XXXClass.method\`\].

### Defining arguments in a method

Arguments should be defined with the `Args:` (or `Arguments:` or `Parameters:`)
prefix, followed by a line return and an indentation. The argument should be
followed by its type, with its shape if it is a tensor, a colon and its
description:

```
    Args:
        n_layers (`int`): The number of layers of the model.
```

If the description is too long to fit in one line, another indentation is
necessary before writing the description after th argument.

Here's an example showcasing everything so far:

```
    Args:
        input_ids (`torch.LongTensor` of shape `(batch_size, sequence_length)`):
            Indices of input sequence tokens in the vocabulary.

            Indices can be obtained using [`AlbertTokenizer`]. See [`~PreTrainedTokenizer.encode`] and
            [`~PreTrainedTokenizer.__call__`] for details.

            [What are input IDs?](../glossary#input-ids)
```

For optional arguments or arguments with defaults we follow the following
syntax: imagine we have a function with the following signature:

```
def my_function(x: str = None, a: float = 1):
```

then its documentation should look like this:

```
    Args:
        x (`str`, *optional*):
            This argument controls ...
        a (`float`, *optional*, defaults to 1):
            This argument is used to ...
```

Note that we always omit the "defaults to \`None\`" when None is the default for
any argument. Also note that even if the first line describing your argument
type and its default gets long, you can't break it on several lines. You can
however write as many lines as you want in the indented description (see the
example above with `input_ids`).

### Writing a multi-line code block

Multi-line code blocks can be useful for displaying examples. They are done
between two lines of three backticks as usual in Markdown:


````
```
# first line of code
# second line
# etc
```
````

We follow the [doctest](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html) syntax
for the examples to automatically test the results stay consistent with the
library.

### Writing a return block

The return block should be introduced with the `Returns:` prefix, followed by a
line return and an indentation. The first line should be the type of the return,
followed by a line return. No need to indent further for the elements building
the return.

Here's an example for a single value return:

```
    Returns:
        `List[int]`: A list of integers in the range [0, 1] --- 1 for a special token, 0 for a sequence token.
```

Here's an example for tuple return, comprising several objects:

```
    Returns:
        `tuple(torch.FloatTensor)` comprising various elements depending on the configuration ([`BertConfig`]) and inputs:
        - ** loss** (*optional*, returned when `masked_lm_labels` is provided) `torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(1,)` --
          Total loss as the sum of the masked language modeling loss and the next sequence prediction (classification) loss.
        - **prediction_scores** (`torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(batch_size, sequence_length, config.vocab_size)`) --
          Prediction scores of the language modeling head (scores for each vocabulary token before SoftMax).
```

## Adding an image

Due to the rapidly growing repository, it is important to make sure that no
files that would significantly weigh down the repository are added. This
includes images, videos and other non-text files. We prefer to leverage a hf.co
hosted `dataset` like the ones hosted on
[`hf-internal-testing`](https://huggingface.co/hf-internal-testing) in which to
place these files and reference them by URL. We recommend putting them in the
following dataset:
[huggingface/documentation-images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images).
If an external contribution, feel free to add the images to your PR and ask a
Hugging Face member to migrate your images to this dataset.

## Styling the docstring

We have an automatic script running with the `make style` comment that will make
sure that:
- the docstrings fully take advantage of the line width
- all code examples are formatted using black, like the code of the 🤗 Optimum
  library

This script may have some weird failures if you made a syntax mistake or if you
uncover a bug. Therefore, it's recommended to commit your changes before running
`make style`, so you can revert the changes done by that script easily.

## Testing documentation examples

Good documentation oftens comes with an example of how a specific function or
class should be used. Each model class should contain at least one example
showcasing how to use this model class in inference. *E.g.* the class
[Wav2Vec2ForCTC](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/wav2vec2#transformers.Wav2Vec2ForCTC)
includes an example of how to transcribe speech to text in the [docstring of its
forward
function](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/wav2vec2#transformers.Wav2Vec2ForCTC.forward).

## Writing documenation examples

The syntax for Example docstrings can look as follows:

```
    Example:

    ```python
    >>> from transformers import Wav2Vec2Processor, Wav2Vec2ForCTC
    >>> from datasets import load_dataset
    >>> import torch

    >>> dataset = load_dataset("hf-internal-testing/librispeech_asr_demo", "clean", split="validation")
    >>> dataset = dataset.sort("id")
    >>> sampling_rate = dataset.features["audio"].sampling_rate

    >>> processor = Wav2Vec2Processor.from_pretrained("facebook/wav2vec2-base-960h")
    >>> model = Wav2Vec2ForCTC.from_pretrained("facebook/wav2vec2-base-960h")

    >>> # audio file is decoded on the fly
    >>> inputs = processor(dataset[0]["audio"]["array"], sampling_rate=sampling_rate, return_tensors="pt")
    >>> with torch.no_grad():
    ...     logits = model(**inputs).logits
    >>> predicted_ids = torch.argmax(logits, dim=-1)

    >>> # transcribe speech
    >>> transcription = processor.batch_decode(predicted_ids)
    >>> transcription[0]
    'MISTER QUILTER IS THE APOSTLE OF THE MIDDLE CLASSES AND WE ARE GLAD TO WELCOME HIS GOSPEL'
    ```
```

The docstring should give a minimal, clear example of how the respective model 
is to be used in inference and also include the expected (ideally sensible)
output.
Often, readers will try out the example before even going through the function 
or class definitions. Therefore it is of utmost importance that the example 
works as expected.

# Adding documentation support for an 🤗 Optimum subpackage

🤗 Optimum is distributed as a collection of subpackages, where each subpackage
refers to one of the hardware integrations such as `optimum-graphcore` or
`optimum-intel`. For every pull request or release of 🤗 Optimum, we use GitHub
Actions to combine the documentation for each subpackage with the base
documentation of the `optimum` repository. 

Including the documentation for a subpackge involves four main steps:

1. Adding a `docs/source` folder with content and a `_toctree.yml` file that
   follows the same specification as 🤗 Optimum
2. Creating a Dockerfile in `docs` that installs all necessary dependencies
3. Adding a `make doc` target to the Makefile of the subpackage that generates
   the HTML files of the documentation
4. Updating the GitHub Actions in `build_pr_documentation.yml` and
   `build_main_documentation.yml` to render the subpackage documentation on the
   Hugging Face website

Let's walk through an example with `optimum-habana` to see how steps 2-4 work in
detail. The Docker file for this subpackage looks as follows:

```dockerfile
# Define base image for Habana
FROM vault.habana.ai/gaudi-docker/1.4.0/ubuntu20.04/habanalabs/pytorch-installer-1.10.2:1.4.0-442

# Need node to build doc HTML. Taken from https://stackoverflow.com/a/67491580
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
    software-properties-common \
    npm
RUN npm install npm@latest -g && \
    npm install n -g && \
    n latest

# Clone repo and install basic dependencies
RUN python3 -m pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade pip
RUN git clone https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git
RUN python3 -m pip install --no-cache-dir ./optimum-habana[quality]
```

The main thing to note here is the need to install Node in the Docker image -
that's because we need Node to generate the HTML files with `hf-doc-builder`.
Once you have the Dockerfile, the next step is to define a target in the
Makefile:

```
SHELL := /bin/bash
CURRENT_DIR = $(shell pwd)

...

doc: build_doc_docker_image
	@test -n "$(BUILD_DIR)" || (echo "BUILD_DIR is empty." ; exit 1)
	docker run -v $(CURRENT_DIR):/doc_folder --workdir=/doc_folder doc_maker \
	doc-builder build optimum.habana /optimum-habana/docs/source/ \
		--build_dir $(BUILD_DIR) \
		--html \
		--clean
```

Once you've added the `doc` target to the Makefile, you can check the docs build
by running the following command from the root of the subpackage repository:

```
make doc BUILD_DIR=habana-doc-build
```

The final step is to include the subpackage in the GitHub Actions, e.g. add
these steps to `build_pr_documentation.yml` and `build_main_documentation.yml`:

```
- uses: actions/checkout@v2
with:
    repository: 'huggingface/optimum-habana'
    path: optimum-habana

- name: Make Habana documentation
env:
    NODE_OPTIONS: --max-old-space-size=6656
run: |
    cd optimum-habana
    git fetch origin
    git checkout documentation
    make doc BUILD_DIR=habana-doc-build # Make sure BUILD_DIR={subpackage_name}-doc-build
    sudo mv habana-doc-build ../optimum
    cd ..

- name: Combine subpackage documentation
    env:
    NODE_OPTIONS: --max-old-space-size=6656
    run: |
    cd optimum
    sudo python docs/combine_docs.py --subpackages habana --version pr_$PR_NUMBER # Make sure the subpackage is listed here!
    sudo mv optimum-doc-build ../
    cd ..
```